footage has emerged from Gaza apparently
showing dozens of Palestinian men
detained and forced to strip by Israeli
forces the men are seen sitting
cross-legged or kneeling in several
different locations and being
transported on the back of military
vehicles these pictures were filmed in
Northern Gaza not far from Gaza City
Israel has not confirmed who the men are
but says it is interrogating individuals
Israeli Army spokesman Daniel hagari
said and I quote we are investigating to
see who is linked to Hamas and who is
not Alia I asked our correspondent Tanya
krer in Jerusalem what more she knew
about the images of the
detainees well as you said um the
Israeli Army wouldn't confirm those
pictures or videos but they've been
circulating uh since uh Thursday on
social media showing uh um dozens of men
uh uh stripped down to their underwear
uh with someone their hands bound and
guarded by uh soldiers these are videos
and photos uh some have been deoc to the
Northern Area um parts of them are to B
laka which is a town in northern Gaza
and uh some families and relatives have
actually identified on social media at
least their their uh relatives on this
uh on some of the photos and we
understand that one of them is a a local
correspondent for a london-based Arabic
newspaper they have put out a statement
um uh in this regard but again the Army
uh would just say that they have
arrested uh hundreds of men uh interrog
interrogating them as well over recent
weeks separately Tanya there has also
been pressure on Israel to allow more
Aid into Gaza how is Israel responding
to
that well the pressure has been mounting
not just to uh get more Aid into Gaza
but also for more protection of
civilians mainly by uh the United States
but also the United Nations is uh saying
now that it's incredibly difficult now
with the uh expanding ground operations
also towards the South where um many
Palestines have been displaced to from
the north the situation is becoming very
uh dire there as well with heavy
bombardment uh going on there as well we
also had some rocket Fire coming out
from Gaza today but um there is some
talk and some reports that uh Israel
might consider to use the km Shalom
Crossing uh to for screening of
humanitarian Aid that is usually coming
in on trucks through uh the Rafa
Crossing which is the crossing uh with
Egypt uh Israel had closed its two
Crossings one in the north that is
mainly for people to go through uh in
the past and the one Kum shalom in the
South for goods uh but so then might be
less pressure on the uh Crossing in RAF
but having said that uh because of the
heavy fighting reported in the South
humanitarian organizations are saying
they have difficulties to get the the
the little Aid that is coming in or the
aid that is coming in uh to these uh two
people uh for example also to the
central areas to the Northern areas and
also in the South because it's extremely
difficult uh to distribute Aid and we
heard the um un's under General Secret
for humanitarian Affairs Martin Griffith
also saying that we do not have a
humanitarian operation in southern Gaza
anymore we can't call it like this
anymore because there's no safe space
for people and uh also no safe space to
distribute the aid we leave it there for
the time being tiny in Jerusalem thank
you so
much the tiny coastal town of Al mavali
was declared a safe Zone by Israel's
military after it told some 430 ,000
residents of gaza's second largest city
Khan Unice to evacuate but many
displaced gazans who arrived at the 10
square kilm patch of land say they found
no humanitarian
Aid another Palestinian school that's
become a mass displacement Camp labeled
in Israel's evacuation plan as a
humanitarian Zone many who moved here
were promised better
conditions
they said this place would be the safest
that it would be a dump for humanitarian
aid but of course that's not true at
all those Sheltering at the school say
they've mostly had to fend for
themselves describing a complete absence
of all
utilities we're all right but there are
no Services here there's no running
water there's nothing we're sleeping
outside in the cold
more than 2 months into the war gazin
here say they're exhausted of living in
inhumane conditions and not having
access to Medical
Care we ask International actors to
provide Aid access to electricity food
water so that we can live in peace
here we call on global powers to stop
this war in
Gaza and until then many here in al-
maali are trying to survive with
whatever means they
have the United Nations Secretary
General is pushing for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire in Gaza Antonio
gutterz told the UN Security Council
that people in Gaza are being moved
around like human pinballs he said it's
impossible for Aid workers to get to
people in need the council is to vote on
a draft resolution calling for a
ceasefire and the release of hostages
held
by
Hamas the UN Chief says International
Security could be at risk there is a
high risk of the total collapse of the
humanitarian support system in Gaza
which would have devastating
consequences we anticipate that it would
result in a complete breakdown of public
order and increased pressure for Mass
displacement into
Egypt I fear the consequences could be
devastating for the security of the
entire region now let's bring in our
correspondent Benjamin Alvarez grba in
Washington DC Benjamin give us the
context of this vote why is it happening
now people in Gaza star into the abis
that's what Secretary General Antonio
gues said earlier today at this meeting
of the security Council that is
happening in New York he stressed that
the humanitarian system and the
humanitarian operations in Gaza are
collapsing he also used the word saying
that we are at a Breaking Point with
devastating consequences and he also
stressed this complete lack of
assurances for us and that's something
we also heard in that report and also
heard from our colleague Tanya GMA there
gues said that the threat for our staff
is um president and he said that this
would have devastating consequences if
this strikes in Gaza continue just to
give you a few numbers on why this vote
is taking place now he said that
reportedly more than 300 education
facilities 88 masques 29 hospitals have
been hit and more than 60% of housing in
Gaza is destroyed or damaged so why is
this vote it taking place now Antonio
gures invoked article 99 of the UN
Charter which says that the Secretary
General May inform the council these 15
members of matters he believes threaten
International Peace in security so this
is something that gives him an important
additional power since the real power of
the UN is held by its 193 member nations
but especially the 15 countries 15
countries that serve the security
Council and that's where this vote is
will expect to have an a vote on that
later on today so gutes thinks
International Peace and security is
under threat what do the security
Council Members think will the vote
pass so one of the 15 uh me members of
the security Council the United Arab
Emirates the only Arab country has
pushed for a draft resolution demanding
an immediate humanitarian ceasefire this
is not the first time that there's a
vote like this in the security Council
the was in October that the US vetoed
because for a resolution to be adopted
you need nine out of 15 members of this
Council to vote in favor and none of
them none of the five permanent members
to veto the resolution and that's
exactly where we don't know how the US
will vote we can expect that this might
be just another veto and that's
something that secretary blinken also
said yesterday was a press conference
with um foreign Secretary of the United
Kingdom David Cameron and there blinkin
once again stressed that it's important
he said that he believes the assurances
that Israel is giving but he also said
that's different between what they're
claiming that they want to do and how
the situation on the ground actually
look like and that's also something that
we heard in the report there so we can
imagine that the US might again veto
this resolution if that's the case why
hold a
vote that's a very good question many
are saying that gutes is showing that
the UN can act that the UN can do more
we don't see why it should be any
different to the situation in October
that was already catastrophic we see the
rethoric is changing we see pressure on
Israel increasing we see
um also Israeli officials being pressed
on what they say what they do actually
and that was something really
interesting also during yesterday's
press conference that I just mentioned
with secretary blinken and um David
Cameron because a Reuters journalist
press secretary blinkin um asking about
um this new investigation that showed
that an Israeli a tank crew fired and
killed the RO journalist but secretary
blink dodged the question saying that
they still believe in Israel assurances
of protecting journalist in the war zone
we leave it there for the time being
thanks so much for joining us today
Benjamin Alvarez
grba